Welcome back. LSTMs, as
I've mentioned before,
are the best known solution
to the vanishing
gradient problem.
Let me tell you about it.
Now I'll give you a high level
view into the LSTM model,
what's its architecture
looks like,
along with a few examples of
what they're used for
in the real world.
The LSTM is a special variety
of RNN that was
designed to handle
entire sequences of data
by learning when to remember
and when to forget,
which is similar to the GRU.
An LSTM is essentially
composed of a cell state,
which you can think
of as its memory,
and the hidden state,
where computations
are performed during
training to decide on
what changes to make.
The hidden state typically
has three gates to pass
through before the entire
operation is performed again.
Any loop would
update the weights.
These cell state travels through
these three gates that
track inputs as it arrives.
Each one plays a part in deciding
how much information to pass
along and how much
to leave behind.
This series of gates
allows the gradients
to flow unchanged.
The risk of vanishing or
exporting gradients is mitigated.
Let's take a moment to
relate this concept
to something you might
find a bit more familiar.
Imagine receiving a phone
call from your best friend.
At the time your phone rings,
you might be thinking of
any number of things
unrelated to your friend.
This is similar to the cell state
at the beginning of the loop.
When you answer the call,
you put aside those
unrelated thoughts while
retaining anything you meant to
talk to your friend about.
This is similar to what
the forget gate does.
As your conversation progresses,
you'll be taking in all the
new information from your friend
while also thinking of what else
might be relevant
to talk about next.
This is similar to what
the two layers of
the input gates do.
When you decide what to say next,
that's similar to
the outputs gates.
You will then continue to
evolve the conversation in
this way until you hang up
at the end of the call.
You'll have a memory
or cell states that's
been updated a few times
since you began
your conversation.
Let's take a look at
the basic anatomy of
a typical LSTM units,
and what each part does.
First is the cell or memory,
which is typically
followed by three gates.
The forget gate,
typically sigmoid layer,
which looks at all
the information from
the previous cell state and
decides what to throw away.
Then you need to decide
what new information
to store in the cell,
which brings you
to the input gate.
This has two parts,
a sigmoid layer to choose
which values to update,
and the tanh layer to
select candidates for
new values to be added.
Then you will calculate
your new cell state.
Finally, the output gate
takes the previous
hidden state along with
the current inputs and processes
them through another
sigmoid and tanh layer,
the products of which decides how
much to write to the
next hidden state.
Before diving deeper
into the math,
let's discuss some of the
many applications of LSTMs.
As you might have guessed,
it's very handy for
building language models,
spanning use cases from
predicting the next
character of your e-mail,
to building chatbots capable
of remembering longer
conversations.
Music composition can
be done with LSTMs.
This approach makes
a lot of sense
considering that music is built
using long sequences of notes,
much like text uses long
sequences of words.
Other cool applications
are automatic
image captioning and
speech recognition.
In overcoming the problems
of a traditional RNN,
the LSTM has become
incredibly popular tool
with a wide range of uses,
and has helped evolve NLP
in some exciting ways
that I'll discuss in more detail
towards the end of this week.
In summary, LSTMs are
a solution to the vanishing
gradients problem.
That typical LSTMs have a cell
or memory and three gates,
which are the forget gates,
inputs gates, and outputs gates.
Now you understand LSTMs
on the high level,
but what exactly is the math
behind the LSTM computation?
I will show you in
the next video.